Meet Lily.
Lily is a facilitator in the
ITS Learning and Client
Performance (LCP) department.
Her manager assigned her to
update the “Teller
Transactions” Virtual Trainer
course.
As Lily updates this course,
she applies ITS Minimalism
Standards to produce the best
quality course.
After following along with
Lily, you will also be able to
apply Minimalism in your course
design projects.
Minimalism is focusing on the
content our learners need and
value most by removing anything
that could distract from it.
It's about subtracting quantity
to add quality.
Let’s compare two sets of
instructions and see how
Minimalism can benefit us as
learners or end users.
In order to activate the
telephone for use, the user
must press the Power (PWR)
button and hold it for a
duration of 0.4 seconds.
Then the button is released.
Turning on the phone - Press
and hold the PWR button until
the light comes on and the bell
rings.
Which example did you find
easier to follow?
Which example would you be more
likely to spot if you were
scanning a learner guide for
instructions on how to turn on
your phone?
Which one felt like it was
written with you in mind?
As you may have guessed, the
second choice reflects
Minimalism.
Even this simple example
reveals that Minimalism
provides clear benefits to
learners and end users.
The ITS Minimalism Standards
include four principles:
focus on the user or learner,
take an action-oriented
approach,
support access, and
support error recognition and
recovery.
The first two apply most
directly to the type of content
facilitators design, while the
last two apply more to content
created by technical writers,
so this course addresses the
first two.
Specifically, after completing
this course, you will be able
to design courses that
focus on the learner by
removing excess information
and take an action-
oriented approach by focusing
on tasks rather than system
functionality.
Let's begin by following along
as Lily applies the first
Minimalism principle to her
course update.